[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
I need to tell you what yarn is.

I should pull out a cheat.

Maybe it was all just. For the years reason might.

He. How'd your knee be?

So, you know sunny. How? Whoosh!

Um hum. Yes. Uh oh.

I think it's clear. It's clear. I don't know if you're gonna like that.

I don't think so. I think you're right. Let me know when I go.

Home. All right. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning. Um, welcome to our classroom.

I have, uh, couple of quick announcements.

Uh, one, uh, we have, uh, new student to the class.

Or maybe not new, but new in terms of formally being admitted, uh, to our classroom.

Uh, his name is Anthony. He's, uh, not an employee ID.

I make it very, very hard for not mpd's to enroll in this course.

He cleared all the hurdles. So, please, uh, offer him a warm welcome to our classroom.

Um, from now on, he's an equal citizen in this classroom.

And I hope that also means that if you have a study group that might be looking for, uh, someone to help,

uh, maybe you can invite him, uh, whether you invite him to your parties or not, that's up to you.

Uh, but to the study groups. I hope you do.

Uh, the second, uh, thing that I wanted to say is that I've been very pleased with, uh, slack, unprompted slack reflections being, uh, um, done.

And so we have a few, uh, sort of comments about, uh, last class.

Hello? Hello. Why are we a little late today?

Uh, uh, what do we think this is?

This is like a market bazaar or what? What's going on here?

Okay, so, um, so I think Jaga Jaga is, uh, joining us online.

Is that. Is that right? Uh, so please say hi to Jaga.

Uh, and we hope, uh, that we welcome, uh, her and the other to, uh, to the classroom.

So hopefully that will happen soon.

Okay, so today's class, uh, for those of you who, uh, like checklist, uh, we're done with, uh, first unit on probability.

And we're now going to focus on statistical inference.

But I want you to see that probability is very much, uh, the underpinnings of inference.

So that's why we, we studied that's partly why we studied a little bit, uh, about it.

Uh, today's class is about sampling distribution. And I want to begin by saying that this is, uh, this is a very important class.

This is a very important idea.

Sampling distribution is an airport idea is one that I very much hope that you will remember five years from now when you meet me at an airport.

And the reason for that is that I don't think you can understand,

fully understand statistical inference if you don't understand what a sampling distribution is.

And the problem with, um, uh, with sampling distribution is that many people, including myself,

go through entire statistics courses without even thinking that sampling distributions anything to pay attention to.

Uh, in graduate school, when I did my PhD, I remember my first year of courses.

I was doing proofs all the time. Proved that the sampling distribution of this estimator is this under this conditions.

And I would do the proofs. And I realized years later I didn't understand what I was doing.

I didn't understand what a sampling distribution was.

And I want to convey to you that it actually is the very central underpinnings of understanding statistical inference,

of understanding how we can generalize from a sample to a population.

Unfortunately for me, uh, I've been teaching this course for several years, and this class is one of the ones that I find most challenging to teach.

And so I want to, um, um, take you, uh,

through some of the reflections that I had over the years about this class in the hope of conveying to you how important this class is,

how important this idea, uh, is.

So I have as a sacred practice that after every class, every class session, I write what I think went well and what I think didn't go well.

Um, and so I'm going to show you, uh, for the last few years, what those reflections look like for today's class.

Those reflections are usually informed by the teaching team who also, uh, provides input.

But this is sort of my perception of the class.

Are we ready to see those reflections? Thank you, thank you.

This is. This is a little personal, but we'll try to make it happen.

Okay, so here it is. Uh, I started teaching this course in 2004, but I've only kept this records only.

Only, uh, since 2000. Uh, ten.

Uh, so here we go. I just want you to focus on the first.

Like, this is a very important class, and that I did not like at all how it went.

Uh, I struggled again in this class, 2000 and, uh, 11, 2012.

This very important class went well, but not great. I'm going to skip a few.

Uh, so you have a sense I think this class went okay, but not grade.

Oh, this one is one of my favorites. For a while in this class, I had the illusion that things were going much better than in past years.

But when we got to the central limit theorem, it was clear that it was just an illusion.

Uh, total disaster 2016.

Need to rethink this class from scratch. Uh, could have gone better.

I'm going to skip a few. Not to bore you with some of my reflections.

Um, not sure this is an important class.

Uh, I think better, but still no where I want it to be.

Uh, 2022 some progress, 2023.

It was okay. 2024 felt better than in past year.

But maybe I am just fooling myself. All right.

So have I conveyed to you that this is a very important class?

Yeah, this is an airport class. So I am drawing inspiration from Einstein who said creativity is contagious.

So maybe there's some creative stuff that will help this class go better.

Although this is my favorite Einstein, uh, thing. Uh uh, so, uh, okay.

So, um, so, uh, let's do it.

Are we ready? All right. Let's do it.

Okay. So, um, my goal in today's class is not so much to convince you.

Uh, why sampling distribution, uh, is so important.

I hope we'll be able to do that over the next few classes.

Uh, or even how it can be used.

My goal is to convince you or not to convince you, to help you understand what a sampling distribution actually is.

Because once you understand that, then a lot of inference pieces, uh, fall in place.

Okay. So let's, uh, begin by saying this is a unit on statistical inference.

And statistical inference involves learning something about a population, uh, from a sample drawn from that population.

And that's something from the population. We're going to summarize in something we want to call population parameter.

So that is the thing that we are interested in. So you might be interested in the population mean income of your country.

So everyone's income you take the average.

You might be interested in the proportion of people in the population of interest that is going to vote for a certain candidate,

uh, later in the course, you might be interested in the regression coefficient, uh, based on uh, population.

And by learning we usually mean two things. One is estimation.

We want to estimate that population parameter. And the second one is we want to do hypothesis testing.

We want to see if that population parameter, uh, test a hypothesis if it takes a certain uh, value.

So the, the idea here, uh, is that probability is the underpinnings of, uh, inference.

And you can see that in estimation because sampling distribution, sampling distribution is just a probability distribution.

So that is already on the underpinnings. And when we get to I bought this this testing we're going to talk about the p value.

So uh the key here is that we won't usually have access to the population.

And I think for people who come, uh, from countries that have large populations, this is very natural.

If you come from India, you know, you're not never going to, uh, be able to ask everyone in India about anything.

Uh, but even if you come from a much smaller country, you know that that's usually the case.

So what we're going to do is we're going to try to estimate that population parameter, okay.

We're going to use an estimator that is the formula, the rule, the method that we're going to use to estimate that population, uh parameter.

So very naturally uh that estimator is going to produce a number.

So if we want to know what the average income in, um, say, Malaysia is, uh, we would take a sample of people from Malaysia.

We would ask them what is their income.

We would take the sample average and that will be or estimate for the population parameter that we're interested in,

which is average income in Malaysia. And we do that for um, many others.

The key key key idea here is that by taking a sample, we subject yourselves to uncertainty,

because even if the sample is random, it might just happen to be in the case of Malaysia,

that for the one sample we picked,

we ended up happening happening to pick a sample that was a little bit higher income than the population of Malaysia.

Or we might happen to pick a sample that's lower income.

But the key is whatever we pick is not going to be exactly the same as the population parameter.

We're interested. We want to pick something that, um,

we want to pick an estimator that's going to generate an estimate close to the population parameter, but it won't be the same.

And the idea here is that this sampling fluctuations that are called sampling fluctuations,

because essentially we fluctuate from one sample to another.

We pick an estimator, uh, to produce an estimate.

If we had one sample, it would produce one estimate. If we had a different sample, it would produce a different estimate.

And those sampling fluctuations basically tell us that whatever number we show, uh, to any one, uh, from a sample is subject to uncertainty.

We know that it's not going to be exactly the same.

So whenever anyone in the world shows you a result based on a sample, instead of say, here's the number,

would the first instinct you should have is that number is not enough, because that number is just telling me what is their best guess.

That is that estimate. I also want to know how much uncertainty is around that number.

Because that number is not equal to the population parameter.

So the idea of sampling fluctuations is key to understanding inference.

The whole idea is whenever we pick a sample we produce an estimate.

But that estimate is going to have uncertainty.

Uncertainty in terms of whether it actually is close to the population parameter or not.

So I want you to draw with me this, uh, picture or this image because I think it, it, uh,

I could have written in, in the handout, but I think it's actually helpful for you to go ahead.

So I'm going to pretend here that we have that we could pick several samples.

So this is sample one. This is sample two.

And, you know, maybe this is sample sample cake.

Now, just to be clear, in the real world, we only get to pick one sample.

But for today, I want us to imagine that we could have picked different samples and.

What the estimator is is this black box here?

It's called estimator. And you can fit different samples to the estimator.

Okay. The key is that if you, if you, um, feed sample one, it will spit out estimate one.

And if you spit out sample two, it will spit out estimate two.

And so on. Up to estimate.

Okay. Okay, so in the real world, we will only have access to one sample and therefore to one estimate.

Okay. But we need to understand how estimates vary so that we can reflect the uncertainty of that one estimate that we have.

Okay. That's the key. We need to understand how much variation there is in this estimate.

And just to preview we'll go in more detail.

But the sampling distribution is nothing other than essentially the probability distribution of these estimates.

So think of the sampling distribution as a histogram of those estimates for a sample of a given size.

Okay. So that that picture summarizes everything.

We're not going to go step by step. But the basic idea is you're interested in a population parameter.

You're estimating that with an estimator, a method, a rule and a formula,

that estimator is generating estimates, say main income of a sample in Malaysia.

And that estimate is not enough.

We need to sort of say here's my estimate and here's the uncertainty I have about this estimate.

It's like when you consume a poll, here's my estimate of the support of this candidate.

And here's the margin of error. That margin of error is reflecting the uncertainty, uh, in this scenario.

The question in this scenario, what's the estimate there. And then could you say again, if well, we only have one sample.

Yeah, I think I missed it. Yeah. So in the real world we only have one sample.

And so you might say, well, how are we going to learn about the variation of these estimates if we only have one.

Uh that's where we're going. But essentially they are some estimators that have properties that would allow us to know how these estimates vary,

even if we don't have access to them. Okay. And then this estimator here could be anything for now.

Just putting this box here.

But it could be the sample mean if the population parameter of interest is the population mean it could be a sample proportion,

like the percent of people who are going to vote for a candidate. It could be a regression coefficient.

It could be anything. It's a method. It's a formula.

The estimator is a method. The estimators a number. So this method would be like addition.

The estimator would be average or the estimator would be proportion.

All right. So let's now go.

And uh you might not remember, but in your first assignment for this course, I asked you, uh, how many cups of coffee you consumed.

Okay. And so what we're going to do here is we're going to, um, pretend.

Well, not pretend. I'm going to assume that, uh, everyone who answered to that, uh, survey,

that pre class exercise one is our population of interest, which is essentially almost everyone in this classroom right now.

And what we're going to do is we're going to pick random samples from that population.

So for simplicity imagine you are the population of interest.

And we're going to draw random samples.

And for each of those random samples we are going to produce an estimate of the average number of cups of coffee that you consume.

You're good okay. So first question is how would you define the population parameter of interest.

Yeah, here is the average. But, Carlos, how do we calculate that average?

Uh, so more value. Okay. So, so.

Some. Of number of coffee.

Clubs in the population divided by the number of people divided by the population size.

We usually denote this as um.

Begin. Okay. What is the value of that population parameter?

Um, you might not know, but, uh, it is in your handout.

It is the very last page of your handout. So the very last page of your handout contains the data for our population of interest.

Okay. So let's start by, uh, first, recognizing that there are some of you who drink a lot of cups of coffee.

Max, I don't know if you were in, uh, uh, overdrive, but you said you drink 30 cups of coffee per week.

Is that correct? Well, yeah, that's about right. It's about you.

I know you thought it was pretty average.

Yes. Uh, okay. You guess not. And where?

Where is Mohammed? Mohammed? What about you?

28. You still stand by that? That's like four cups of coffee a day.

Yes. Okay. All right.

Well, uh, on the other hand, there were a bunch of people with zero cups of coffee.

Uh, by the way, I want, I want, I want to reveal to you, uh,

sort of an experience that I had yesterday that I think is indicative of the importance of looking at the data.

Uh, uh, yesterday I was doing this analysis, and I made a mistake, but I didn't realize had made a mistake.

I was looking at a different variable in this survey. Uh, but the number of cups of coffee was found according to that data,

which I think it was like years, uh, in the US or something that was much lower than last year.

And I was like, hmm, there's something weird here.

And then I started looking at the data individually, and I saw a bunch of the Colombian students with zero cups of coffee.

And so I said, okay, there's something wrong here. Uh, and so and so, uh, so then I realized I'm looking at the wrong variable.

I thought that was the one that I was looking. So the thing that I want you to, uh, draw or less than I want you to draw from,

this is a complete aside from the from from the topic of this class is that, uh, looking at data, at the data itself is sometimes very, very helpful.

It's very tempting to go to R and just, like, start putting commands.

Uh, but spend some time looking at the data. It really can reveal things and kind of help you understand things, that it would be very hard.

And in this case, it helped me see a mistake. Okay. So what is the value of the population parameter of interest in this case I and I want to see.

Hands up. Okay.

Uh, Layla. Right.

Say that again. 6.649. We got that.

Where do table we mean?

Okay, so it's it's at the bottom of the table.

So mu equals 6.9. Okay.

And what is the estimator. In this case, what would be an estimator?

How would you go about? Yes. The sample the sample mean.

How do we calculate that? Much they want to go storage.

Okay. So it's the sum of number of coffee cups.

In our sample. Divided by sample size.

And sample size is usually denoted with a little.

Want to highlight for you. That's the estimator. That's a formula. It's not a number.

It's a formula that will produce a number once we feed the sum.

Okay. Good okay.

So now what we're going to do is we're actually going to draw samples from this population.

So I have like a little Excel sheet that will allow us to draw numbers from this population.

Okay. So I want you to see first right here on the column C.

And this is the population data. So this is all of you ignore the orange one uh stuff for now.

But all of you are here. You can see Max and Mohammed.

Right. They're standing at the top of the rankings. Uh, so there were 69, um, um, people in this.

Um, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to draw a sample, and as I draw the sample, I want each and every one of you to stand up.

The sample is going to be here in orange. Okay. So I'm going to calculate.

When I say calculate now it's going to draw a sample. And let's see what happens.

All right. So now we just drew this sample. If your name is there please stand up.

Okay so a few people 34567.

So maybe a few people are absent uh or are not seeing their name or are not wanting to stand up.

Um, but the bottom line here is that we picked the sample.

This is a very important moment. We just picked our first random sample in this course.

And this random sample happens to have generated mean consumption of coffee of 4.7.

So so if we. Yeah.

And Mohammed made it, made it uh, closer to the average, uh, and if we, uh, if we had relied just on this sample, we wouldn't have known the 6.9.

That's our best guess as to what is the average coffee consumption in this classroom.

Well, good. Yes. Okay. Now sit down. We're going to draw, uh, another sample so you can right here.

The estimate is 4.7. Uh, now we're going to draw another sample.

And I'm going to ask you to again uh, stand up if your name is there.

So go ahead. Okay, so now you see a different sample.

Although notice I think use of you were also part of the first sample.

So for those of you mathematically inclined you can try to estimate the odds of that happening is outside what we're going to do in this class.

But we have here a different random sample and in this different random sample.

Coffee consumption is 6.4 okay.

These are all random samples of size ten. So here is 6.4.

And let's do the exercise. You can sit down. Let's do the exercise one more time.

And now we have 7.2. Please stand up.

Those of you who are part of this sample um.

Okay. Do you see? Everyone is seeing a different sample generates different estimates.

Can I get like, a thumbs up? Like you are following what we're doing?

Yes. Okay. So 7.2 is our third sample.

All right. You can sit down now. So what I want you to see is different samples generate different estimates.

And if we had relied on the first sample, we would have, uh, underestimated the actual cups of coffee consumed the average in this classroom.

The second, uh, one, a little bit over estimated the third one pretty close, but a little bit above.

So the thing here is, if we understand how these estimates vary from sample to sample,

we're going to be able to reflect that uncertainty when we give someone the results based on our sample.

Notice that or samples means were like 5.97.2, uh, and so on.

They were not zero 50. Well, 50 we couldn't have but there were not like to 28 and so that tells us something about how much variation we can expect.

Okay. Questions about this exercise. We're good following.

Okay, so this is the same idea that you did in this pre class exercise.

So there the population mean was the average of a fictitious population of five people.

The estimator used was the sample average of only two people.

And what you had was in this last column you essentially had all the possible estimates we could draw.

Now I want to come back to the next question.

We don't have we're right now for now, we're having access to the population because I want you to understand what a sampling distribution is.

But at some point we won't have access to that population.

But for the next 20 minutes or so, I need you to imagine you had access so that you understand what the sampling distribution is.

And just to clarify, the sampling distribution is going to be essentially the histogram of all these possible estimates for a sample of a given size.

So in the case of the online module we picked a fictitious population of only five.

So you could literally see each of the possible samples of size two.

In the case of the coffee. Uh, it's going to be very hard for us to list all the possible samples of size ten.

Uh, but hopefully you get the idea that it is essentially all the possible combinations of people that have ten,

um, of of ten people from this, uh, class.

Okay. So what is the sampling distribution in essence, is this.

Is the distribution of this estimates. Okay.

And here's what I would like you to, um.

Start thinking about. Which is that the distribution of this, uh, estimates, even though you're only going to have one.

So one way to think about inference is I'm just going to pick one random sample.

Maybe it's sample number two. I'm going to put it through an estimator and I'm going to generate an estimate.

So the random selection happens in the left column here.

So this is where we are what we're physically doing.

But what I'm going to suggest to you is a subtle shift in the way that you think about inference.

And what I'm going to suggest to you is whenever you have an estimate coming from a sample,

you should think of that estimate being a random draw from this distribution.

Okay. So the idea here is we we know we have an estimate based on our one sample.

And I want you to think about okay. From what um, from what distribution am I drawing that estimate.

And you will be drawing it from this distribution, the sampling distribution.

Uh, just a quick question about drawing samples. Uh, does it come with combination or permutation?

Because that is something confused me. Yeah. The ordering of sample doesn't matter.

Yeah, yeah. So in the, uh.

The purest definition of, uh, sort of everything that we're doing here is you're drawing a sample from an infinitely large population,

so you don't have some of these issues.

Uh, the module is a little bit confusing because it basically sort of said that, um, Emilio and Teddy is not the same as Teddy and Emilio.

Um, every calculation that you did doesn't matter whether you you essentially have doubled the sample size,

the, uh, the size of the sampling distribution.

But for now, I want to abstract from that. I want you to imagine that we essentially picking different people,

and it doesn't matter what order you're picking them up, because most of the time it doesn't matter the order.

Okay. Other questions. Okay.

So bottom line is we're going to take a sample.

We're going to put it in this estimator. We're going to draw an estimate.

We're going to reflect the uncertainty of that estimate by saying here's my estimate.

Here's my best guess as to what I want to know about the population.

And here's the uncertainty. And that uncertainty is going to depend on this sampling distribution.

Okay. So let's go.

And um, I want you to imagine two scenarios.

You have this sampling, uh, distribution.

Um, this is the sampling distribution number one. And scenario B you have this sampling distribution and they're all centered.

Both of them are centered at the same number.

So what I would like you to do is to answer this question that you see here.

So take out your phones. Okay, I'm going to wait for 20 more seconds while you put your answer.

Okay. All right.

So, professor? Yes. That the scale of the x axis for both the histograms are same.

Yes. Few. Any shortcomings, uh, should be attributed to my drawing skills.

Not to any message that I want to give. Okay, so, uh, why don't we do something?

Get together in groups of three and try to convince each other of your answer?

Oh, you didn't know. How much I was join.

This is what you say. I think that's all right.

I'm not. Sure.

Don't. Know.

Oh! My God!

Oh, my. God!

Oh! My.

Okay, let's, uh, let's come back together. Uh, please, uh, please vote again.

Please vote again. Uh, in case it change, I want to know.

I see. Okay, so either you're not voting again or you're not changing your, uh, your mind very much.

Okay. So I would like to ask for a, uh, volunteer for, um.

Um, maybe someone who changed their mind. Like, what made you change your mind?

Sally, I was going to say not, um. Uh huh.

Gentlemen decided to the two gentlemen.

Uh, they're asking for higher volume. Oh, sorry.

And, um, what they how they convince me is that the range of scenario A is bigger.

Yeah. The chances of you getting the actual middle is slim.

Yeah. As for B, there's a smaller range in which that you will have a higher possibility of getting something out of it.

Good. So basic idea is scenario B, pretty much all the estimates that you get are going to be close to the population parameter.

So there's not much uncertainty to be reflected when we present this estimate.

Because if you happen to call out this estimate or this other estimates, there are going to be relatively close to the population mean.

So not much uncertain scenario, eh.

On the other hand, there's a lot of possibility that you might pick an estimate far from the population mean.

So whenever if you were in scenario A, you would need to present your estimate.

But say look, I'm not really sure the the true population parameter might be very far from here.

So you reflect more uncertainty. And that is in essence what you're trying to do.

The sampling distribution is giving you a sense of how much uncertainty you have.

The tighter the sampling distribution, the less uncertainty you have because all your estimates are going to be close to the population parameter.

So you want to know both, uh, how spread the sampling distribution is.

You also want to know the shape. And so that's where we're going next.

So yeah. So the shape of the sampling distribution is a commentary on the accuracy of the estimator itself, the shape of the sampling distribution.

It tells us about the accuracy of the estimator.

Uh so there are several things that determine, uh, the shape and the spread of the sampling distribution.

We're going to go over, uh, them. But certainly what estimator you have is going to tell you things about the sampling distribution.

So for example, in this example, if the sampling distribution happens to be centered at the population parameter of interest,

that is a property of an estimator called unbiasedness.

But if you have a bias estimator won't be centered there okay.

Felicia, can we say estimate there is like a sample parameter?

Uh, no estimator is a rule, is a method is a formula that you apply to the sample at hand to get your estimate.

But there's not such thing as a sample parameter. It's, uh, it's literally uh, uh, for the most part in this course, it's just going to be a formula.

And that formula produces an estimate, which is your best guess as to what the population parameter is.

One way or the same as statistic. Yeah.

Uh, estimator and statistic, uh, mean the same thing, although I find it confusing to call statistic uh,

this given that the discipline is called statistics. But that's a different matter.

But it's the same if you if you come from the world of statistics, that's what you would get.

See value. There's also this, uh, bell shaped graph is drawn using the values of that particular sample.

Uh, note this is the sampling distribution is drawn from.

Imagine the coffee example that we did. But instead of three samples we had drawn all the possible samples of size 1010 in the class.

And we have put them here. So what I want you to start seeing is that this is essentially telling you how likely are the different samples.

Okay. So here's a scenario where two cups of coffee would be very unlikely.

Here's a scenario where maybe two cups of coffee is reasonable.

It's in the vicinity of what you might expect. Okay.

Okay, so so different values of faith is one value drawn from one sample.

And there are different values of theta. So theta theta is just one number in this line which happens to be this 6.9 average that we had before.

But what this is it's telling you the probability of different possible estimates.

So it's telling you you know,

you could you could take here and you could say a sample that has an average between 5.5 and 7.5 has 70% chance of occurring.

Whether whereas here, a sample that has a likelihood between 5.5 and 7.5 only has a 40% chance of occurring.

That's what you're. True measure because I will also look at the samples, though I know you don't lift your hands.

You speak louder if you a few.

If you associate lifting your hands, we speak louder. We accept that as well.

Go ahead.

Obviously you will have the sample size for in both scenarios is the same, because I have understood over the years that a narrowed and a dollar.

Yeah, curve means that the sample size is greater, which is why it's close.

We're going to go there in a minute. I haven't told you.

Uh, it's possible that this was generated because these are sampling distributions of different size of sample size of different size.

It's also possible that I just happened to pick a different estimator, not sample estimator in both.

I'm relying on the fact that I'm doing a random sample. In the exercise that we just did.

Estimator was the same. Yeah, but I know sample size was also the same, but we got different accuracies.

Uh, to the population estimate.

What what you got was different estimates that would be in this distribution or in this one depending on where you are.

So these are different estimates. This this distribution is all imagine we had done this thing for our estimates.

All the estimates are there. These are all the possible estimates that you could draw from uh,

that essentially instead of asking you to stand up three times to take three samples,

we would be here until your graduation picking all the possible samples of size ten.

And for each of them, we get an estimate. We put all those estimates there and that's the sampling distribution.

But what I want you to see is that your sampling distribution, which means that now that you know what all the possible estimates are,

you can ask the questions such as the one that Shivani was asking,

which is like, well, what's the likelihood that we would select a sample that has a mean between 5 and 5 and a half and seven and a half?

Well, the likelihood is we're just going to do it.

In fact, let's do let's do that now. Yeah, yeah. The follow up question then what do I understand that the difference between the two

backwards is the standard deviation being larger in the scenario in scenario B.

But what determines the the spread the spread itself in.

Because we are looking at the likelihood of a specific sample distribution happening.

Right. Yeah I have not thought about this concept in this way before.

So trying to understand what determines the difference in the standard deviation between the two scenarios.

Yeah. I need you to give me nine minutes to get there. Okay. Great.

All right. So I want I want to I think uh, Shivangi and Subash this question are inching towards the next thing we're going to do.

Um, and so here's what I want us to, um, uh, to do, I want you to look at, uh, population data, the last page of your handout.

Uh, by the way, this is the the longest handout of the whole semester.

Maybe this is a reflection of my many, uh, failed attempts at this class.

Uh, so on page 17 of the handout, I want you to, uh, answer first this question.

You pick one student at random from the 69 students in the class, and the question is, what is the probability that the cups of coffee consumed?

Sorry. Uh, there's a thing missing here that.

Yeah, that the cups of coffee consume is greater than 23.

Over 0.9 percent. Because that's an Mohamed.

Okay. So Max and Mohammed throughout those are two people.

And how many is the class B 1969.

So this is 2.9% okay.

So that's all we did. We pick the student at random.

And the question is what's the likelihood that uh, they will have consumed more than 23 cups of coffee?

Well, of the 69 students, there are two that consume more than, uh, 23 cups of coffee.

So the answer is two over 69. Okay, now I want you to think about the following question.

Uh, which is the one in green here?

So I want you to take a little bit of time thinking about this question.

Uh, now that you know the answer to the first one. So when you're ready, uh, when you are ready, please vote.

So here you're taking a random sample of two students.

And then the question is what's the likelihood. Um.

Okay. Uh, can I have a volunteer to help us with this?

Samantha. So I think that's because the 2.9 is related to the two maximum.

Uh, I mean, the students who who have the maximum incomes of copy.

When we draw a sample, a sample of two people, it's going to be less than the two max.

Uh huh. So. So what does that leave us here with a a probability?

Okay. Anyone else? Katrina. Okay, so in order to have a, uh, sample mean greater than 23.

Yeah, you need to have the total amount of coffee consumed to be 23 plus 23, which is 46.

Yeah. There's, uh, only, like, you need to have one of the either Mohammed or Max and the, um, you need to have them there.

Okay. So, so maybe one way to, um, sort of start understanding the intuition.

Who who are the tallest people in this classroom?

Can you stand up? Uh, I don't think so.

Um, okay. Who can can we have a couple of people stand up?

Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.

Okay. Okay.

So here's what I want you to see. They are the three tallest.

For now. Let's assume they are the three tallest people in the classroom.

So if we were to sort of say what's the likelihood that if we pull the student at random, that student would measure more than the.

I don't know how. How tall are you? Six. Three. Six. Two.

I have news for you. It's only going to get worse over the years. Uh, so, um, so, uh, the likelihood that anyone is above six two.

Well, you pulled this three out of six and nine. That's roughly the likelihood.

But what if we start pulling samples of size two?

Now we have what got three. And I just said, now we need to count on sort of not just one person being tall, but two people, uh,

being tall, or at least one people being very tall and the other person not being, um, um, very short.

What if we had samples of size five? Then all of a sudden they're they are basically being averaged down by the rest of you.

Uh, and those samples end up having a lower, uh, size.

So with sampling does in some way is it diminishes the influence of outliers.

So it makes a result that is extreme, less likely to occur.

And you can actually calculate this. You could. Thank you. You have played your role in this class.

Thank you very much. And you can actually calculate this.

So I want us to think about uh, the answer to this questions here on the next page of your handout.

So let's think about samples of size two. We could draw from this population.

How many could we draw.

This is something that maybe for those of you who took probability classes in the past, you can tell me how you calculate this.

Cathy. Uh, is it by combination?

Like. Okay, so not sure how you guys write combinations, but combinations of what we're thinking too, I don't think.

Okay, so 69 comma two or whatever notation you use.

Um, and then that's uh 69 factorial okay.

Huge number. Yeah. Okay.

Now how many of the samples of size two will have an average number of, uh, cost of coffee greater than 23.

I'm gonna leave you one minute to go to page 17 of your handout and try to identify the answer to that question.

Okay. Volunteers. I need.

So let's call these people a, b, c, d a.

So what are the possible samples we have. So the 5C2.

So we basically two combinations out of each of these.

Okay. Uh but let's list them. Okay.

Um d and we're not concerned about the order.

We're not concerned about the order. Uh, easy.

Okay. If we do a B, what will be the average cup of coffee?

Okay. On Antonio at the hours 20.

So that doesn't work. That doesn't work. So what are the samples that work?

The DNA, Mohammed and, um.

And Max. Yeah. You didn't see. Um C and D.

Uh b and d, b and d and d a and d uh.

And so it could be any b any.

See any. See any. Um.

Yin and. Yang.

We have a Annie. Hey, Annie. So how many?

There are seven. Seven. Joseph.

Um, but we can't possibly take E and every.

All the people that are above 14 know like people a little bit above.

Like if you have like one speak a little louder. One very big number and one number that's a bit smaller than the average can be sure.

But if you pick Max. Um, sorry for the, um, how should I say this?

The visual language here, if you pick our coffee addict Max, he has 30 and then you pick his and he has 15.

What does that average to? Oh, yeah.

22.5. Okay. So what I want you to say is now we have seven samples.

Seven possible samples, seven estimates that are above 23.

And then what we need to do is to divide that over all the possible sample size.

And that, in essence, is what we do in inference. We ask ourselves, how likely is it for us to pull a sample like the one we draw?

So if I want to know how many people, what's the likelihood of pulling a sample of two people, um, uh, that consume coffee on average, more than 23.

I can do this now. In the real world. I'm not going to count every sample like we did here.

I'm just trying to help you gain the intuition in the real world.

What we're going to do is we're going to understand what the sampling distribution looks like, so we can answer that question.

Two battery. That's a living creature with a B because A and B drink on average.

How many cups of coffee? 20. And the question was, what's the likelihood that we would pool a sample that drinks more than 23?

Can I ask a mathematical question? If these two combinations, we get them.

But so when we are making this estimate for a larger sample size, I'll give you prevent, uh, this arrow from happening.

Um, I want you to think about what we did now, uh, spelled in the intuition of what we're going to do in a minute.

In a minute, we're going to have a whole distribution. We're not going to be counting samples.

Okay. All right.

Well, uh, it's it's a very I mean, if I, if I were to count those seven, if I, if I, if I would like for the max to combination two plus two times.

Picking one of the 20 or so. Uh, I took a recommendation on you.

You can. But right now, what I want is to gain intuition.

So I literally wanted you to sort of see this sample works.

This other sample doesn't work. So that right now we have a very clear sense.

There are only seven possible samples for which this will happen.

If you have a different way of calculating those seven samples. I'm totally fine.

I was just I was asking this because during the pre the pre exercise, yes I got very okay.

I got to find one that said so okay okay so come after class.

But then I what I want you for now is to gain the intuition that there are only seven samples out of many, many.

Did anyone calculate what this number looks like? The combinatorial of 2069 over 2346 7340.

US 2300. 2346 so maybe not that huge.

And here we have seven. So how likely is it to draw a sample of size two, whose average, um, number of cups of coffee consumed is greater than 23?

Good point. I think this is going to be seven over 2346.

And what is this number? 3.29.9 7.29%.

Yes. Okay. So we basically have shown that it's lower than the 2.9%, in fact ten times lower than the 2.9% that we had before.

Okay. So this hopefully helps them the intuition on a few things.

But the main thing that I hope that you now get is that the sampling distribution,

which is all the possible estimates, allows us to answer questions like this one.

What is the likelihood that I draw a sample that has this characteristics?

Why does it allow you. Because the sampling distribution essentially has all the possible samples.

It's telling us how likely all these possible samples are.

So what I want us to do now for the last part of the class is to distinguish three distributions.

This is going to be very important because this is the basis of inference.

So let's move to the next page of your handout. And we're going to talk about this distributions.

Okay. So. All right.

So here we go. The first distribution is the distribution of Y in the population.

So this thing here that you see is the cups of coffee that all 69 of you consume.

It's just a histogram. So. Here's Max, here's Mohammed.

All of you are here. Okay. And that distribution is going to have a mean.

And that mean we're going to call it mu, which in this case, what was the mean here.

Remember 6.9. It also has a standard deviation.

And that standard deviation we're going to denoted as sigma okay.

And that is literally the standard deviation of a population.

So in page 17 of your handout I think that number is like 6.3 or something like that.

Think it's be 6.5. Okay. And here's the question for you.

What is the shape of this distribution. Is it normal.

No. So I'm going to call this distribution whatever.

It could be anything okay. Doesn't matter. Whatever it is that's our distribution.

It's just like the population. That's a histogram.

The next thing we're going to do is we're going to pretend we're pick one sample, which is the one we're going to have to make inference on.

And we are now going to draw the distribution of y, the number of copy coffee cups consumed in that one set okay.

And this happens to be a sample of one sample of size 30 of the many we could have drawn, I just drew one.

Okay. So you might notice in this one sample Mohammed is here just by coincidence.

But my X is not because it's a sample. Okay.

And now what I want you to see is the mean of this sample is going to be y bar, which we calculated before.

It's just a sample mean for that. And we know that y bar can sometimes be higher than mu sometimes be lower than mu.

The standard deviation is going to be the standard deviation of that sample of size 30.

We're going to call it's. And S is going to be close to Sigma, but not necessarily the same for the same reasons than before.

What do we think? What do we expect this distribution to look like?

Is it normal? This is not normal.

In fact, it should be subject to sampling fluctuations.

It should be similar to the distribution in the population is not going to look the same,

but it should be similar because it's being drawn randomly from that properly.

So I'm going to use very scientific language for this.

And I'm going to call this whatever. Ish.

So ish means like approximately the same.

And here's the magic, magic, magic of statistics.

One of the most important theorems of the whole statistics is that this distributions are whatever, whatever ish.

But yet when you draw the sampling distribution, which I want to remind you, is you take all the possible samples of a given size, say,

of size 30 or size ten, or of size 20, and you put all of those estimates of the average number of coffee coffees in a histogram.

This distribution is going to look like this.

Approximately. Norm.

And this is all due to the central limit theorem, which is one of the most important theorems in statistics.

Now, I don't expect you to believe me. I don't.

And in fact, in problem set number two, you going to show this to yourself?

Like, I don't expect you to believe that this is the case.

I just tell you that's what the central theorem does.

Now, the mean of this distribution.

This goes back to the question from before. The mean of this distribution.

Because the estimator is the sample mean or estimator is an unbiased estimator of the population mean,

the mean of this distribution is going to be mu. And that is a good thing because we know that our estimates are not going to be the same,

but we would like them on average to be the same than the population mean.

Now here's the question. The standard deviation. What do you think it should be?

Should it be similar to sigma or should it be greater?

Should it be lower? What do we think?

So. I think it should be close to Sigma. Uh huh.

Why is that? Because, uh, it's going to be much more closer to the population.

Mean because of the central limit. Okay.

But remember, what the standard deviation is, is how spread this distribution is.

It's going to be much smaller. Much smaller. Why? Uh, because the distribution of sample means, uh, is normally distributed.

So it's more centered around the actual mean of the population, which is mu.

But they're both centered around you. This is also centered around me.

And this would also be a little more uncertainty.

Uh huh. Very neat.

I'd probably just take on what you said previously that you draw a sample with minimizing the body.

Um, I'd probably take you from what we just discussed previously that when you draw a sample, we're minimizing the probability of excuse coming.

So essentially we're sort of moving more towards. Exactly.

So drawing somewhat uh, sample of size two with 23 cups of coffee.

Very, very unlikely. So that whole distribution is going to be much tighter.

In fact, mathematically for the mean, the standard deviation is going to be sigma over the square root of n the sample size.

And you can show this mathematically. And you probably did this already in math camp.

But the basic idea here is going back to the intuition that several of you have before.

The reason this sampling distribution comparing A and B b sounded like, uh, some larger sample size, uh, distribution is literally here.

The larger the sample size, the more confidence we have in or estimate, which is reflected by a sampling distribution that's much tighter,

much less likely to have 23 cups of coffee on average, if we have a sample or 23 is still very unlikely in either scenario,

but much less likely to have 20 cups of coffee or more.

If we draw a sample of 40 people than if we draw a sample of two people.

Okay. And this distribution, this is the magic of the central limit theorem is approximately normal.

Okay. There's that. Are you saying that regardless of the size of the samples that we are, they're plugging into our.

Yeah. Yeah. Um, we would always have the same mean, but the standard deviation is dependent on that sample size.

Yes. And, um. This central limit theorem applies under certain conditions, but roughly speaking,

if the sample size is large enough, you should see a distribution that is approximately normal.

What is large enough depends on the estimator and so on.

But rule of thumb if you have more than 30 observations, at least for the sample, mean, you should expect this to behave in this way.

Okay. Okay. So to hopefully help put all of this together, I'm going to ask you to think about what the sampling distribution look like.

If you were to pull samples of size one, samples of size five, samples of size 50 and samples of size 69 for coffee example.

So just draw it. Um, I'll give you 1 or 2 minutes to do that, and then we'll come back together.

Brandon uses a ruler to do the x axis that is like.

Brandon, are you an engineer? No. Okay. Okay.

No. Okay. It means something.

Just. Yes. You.

All right. Can I get some volunteers?

Let's start with samples of size five.

Calmness. Well, uh, literally.

There, there. You tell me how well you draw it.

Okay. Here we go. This is my pen.

This is yours. You hold it here. I don't want any confusions.

Okay. Where you attempting to draw a normal distribution, Carla?

Uh, no. No. Okay. What about size 50?

I. Think Carla's drawing skills resemble mine.

Okay. Thank you. Carla's. Give me a sign.

Understand what's happening and not just a draw.

Do you want to draw something? Sure. Like a painting or like a distribution cursor should begin to form.

Okay, so, uh, before we go there, what do we think about Carlos distributions?

Pretty good about this question.

I have this question from before, but maybe I'm very wrong.

But for me this is the assembling distribution of all of those.

It is same, but the difference is how fast you convert the complete conversions of having the same distribution.

But maybe the sample size doesn't matter. Okay.

So remember if we go back here. The standard deviation of the sampling distribution is sigma over square root of n.

So larger the sample size get less spread to sample.

And intuitively just think about it.

If someone told you, uh, I'm going to predict the results of this election, I interviewed ten people versus I interviewed 5000 people.

You are going to have more trust in the five. Assuming they're both randomly drawn on the 5000 people.

That just means less spread out. Okay.

Um, but one thing about Carla's, uh, distributions.

Well, one thing has to do with, uh, they both center at mu, so I'm going to move it a little bit here.

Right? And what is mu in this case, by the way?

6.9. But the distribution of size five should also be maybe the central limit theorem

doesn't quite hold in the same way but should also be approximately normal.

Okay. Maybe not. Not as approximating normal size uh, 50, but it should also be approximately normal.

Okay. Now let's think about the other ones.

It's actually this illustrates, uh, an important principle, uh, analytical principle that I learned from my mentor,

Richard Zach Houser, which is when you're having trouble thinking straight, go to the extremes.

And so the extremes here are sample of size one, sample of size 69.

Let's start with sample of size 69. Remember the sampling distribution is the distribution of the estimates of all the possible samples.

How many possible samples of size 69 can we draw from this population?

One. So what does that distribution look like? So it's going to be centered at Mu.

And it's essentially like this 100%.

You get 66.5 because that's only one possible thing.

Okay. Now the question is what about sample size one.

Again, this is irrelevant in the world, but it's just to help you understand what the sampling distribution is.

Moyes is not the same. Uh uh.

It's the same standard deviation as the population. Okay. Well, how does the shape look like?

So it will be right skewed. Uh huh. Population histogram.

Okay. It's similar to the population histogram.

I would think so. Okay. Anyone else? John.

It is population. It is a population. Uh.

Uh. Histogram. So think about what we're doing.

We're drawing all possible samples of size one.

How many possible samples of size one. They are. 69.

If you draw a histogram of that distribution, what should it look like?

Literally identical to the population distribution to this one here.

But as I just said, one fish. Yeah.

Oh, this is just indicating, uh, 100% certainty.

Okay. Louis last question.

So the first sample is not symmetric. And the last sample was perfectly symmetric.

But let's say from a sample size of two, three, 4 or 5 all the way down.

Yeah. This is from that's the starting from two already.

We start getting a somewhat a roughly symmetric distribution. Or do we not expect the symmetric distribution.

Okay. So so it's going to depend on a lot of things. But let me show you the most cool animation.

I know we only have a minute but are you ready to say it. Yeah.

So this is the sampling distribution of sample size ten.

It's not quite a sampling distribution because we didn't literally draw all the possible sizes estimates of size ten.

Instead what we draw was like a thousand samples of size ten.

So are you ready? Yes. You don't seem as enthused as I am.

Right? All right. So this is size ten.

This is what the sampling distribution looks like. Now look what happens as we increase the sample size.

Increasing the sample size means instead of drawing samples of size ten we're going to draw a thousand samples of size 20 and so on.

Here we go. 30, 40, 50, 60.

So you see what's happening. The sampling distribution is literally.

Narrowing down as the sample size gets bigger.

If we get to 69, it's going to collapse to one single point.

Uh, if you like to see it in colors better.

Here's another graph. So these are all the possible samples of size ten, size 20, and so on.

As you can see, uh, the larger the sample size, the more concentrated around the mean you will be.

All right. It's 1015. We need to go.

But I hope that this gives you a sense of what the sampling distribution is.

And we're going.

