[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
By the time. I feel like this year, 2020.

Oh my goodness. Yeah, I've been trying to tell you.

Oh my. Gosh.

Well I don't. Know.

I hard know. I don't know.

Oh. Yeah.

Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.

Oh, you know I said that you're great.

I wish, I wish you were right. I'm so sorry.

That's amazing. I it.

All right. Hello, everyone. How are we doing?

How are we doing? All right. Let's do it. Okay, so, um, a couple of announcements.

The first one is Assignment Dubai. Now, you know that it's due on Friday.

Um, and we still have plenty of office hours, so our teaching team is here to support your learning.

Make sure you you come to them.

Uh, I want to acknowledge, uh, that Shira was instrumental in, uh, the design of this class, both pedagogically and substantively.

Uh, and so I just want to thank her for, uh, her help, uh, with this class.

Uh, please give her a big round of applause. Um, and, uh, we have two guests.

I think we have two guests in today's class. Randy, you want to introduce your guest?

Okay. Thank you. Uh, that's, um, department of my wife.

Okay.

Uh, professors, um, she the medical doctor and also does not research regarding I audience due to the mass general when she comes to participate.

Thank you. Thank you very much. Please welcome her to our classroom. Uh, and then in the back of the room, we have May.

Klinger, may is an expert in pedagogy.

She works at Slater, uh, Teaching and Learning Center, and she's here to observe, uh, the class and to give, uh, us feedback.

Uh, not, um, feedback. Us feedback. So you behave in your usual way and, uh, ignore her for the most part, but please bring her.

Go ahead. Give her a big round of applause. And welcome to the class.

All right, so today's class is about jobs.

Uh, what's going to happen in the, uh, uh, labor market?

Uh, and just in terms of where we are, uh, we are in this unit of how does generative, uh, how will it affect the people and issues I care about?

That's the unit three, the units on risks. And we're going to discuss four big questions.

Um, and the big questions are, uh, as follows.

So the first question is what will be the effect of AI on the quantity and quality of the jobs?

The second question is which jobs will be most affected by the third question.

What will happen to inequality? And the last question, which policies are likely to be most effective in this space?

And so, um, in case you are going to have a short attention span today, um, I just want to say that, uh, here's the answer to the question.

So you can zone out afterwards. Are you ready?

And you want to know the answer to the questions? Thank you.

All right. Thank you. Here we go. I don't really know.

And in fact, I think nobody knows. Uh, and what does a professor do when nobody knows or when they don't know?

Yes, they call for a debate. So that's what you're going to do today.

You're going to debate about at least the first question, what is the effect of AI on jobs?

But before we do that, I, I do want to say that there are some people who think they know.

So here's one of them. And here's another one.

Uh, no. And of course, there are others who think that technology will solve everything and will be rich.

Uh, and so I don't know how this is going to work, but we're going to have a debate first on what's going to happen to both the

quantity and the quality of the jobs you prepared for the debate in the PC.

And I just want to highlight a few of your debate, uh, preparation techniques.

I think most of you decided to do, uh, what was probably, um, your most used tool,

which is to go to AI and ask, what are the arguments in favor and against, uh, the motion.

But I just want to highlight a couple, uh, three, uh, that I thought were interesting.

So here, Sam, Sam decided to let Chad do the work, uh, and debate itself for over ten responses,

uh, on both sides and then after to engage with the argument.

Uh, so I thought that was an interesting, um, uh, debate preparation technique.

Uh, wrong thing. Uh, decided to, uh, learn the opinion of the five experts.

Those were the five experts that were listed in the PC and then, uh, discussed the age, uh, AI job apocalypse, uh, with you.

Uh, and then finally, I had the dinner to thank for her kids yesterday.

And so she went through a notebook, a lamb. And, uh, you want to tell us a little bit about what happened in that little quiz at the end?

Sure. So I created a podcast, and I tried to listen while my computer.

Yeah, there were the kids. Yeah. When I asked them to do the quiz, like, they have an opportunity.

And then I found out. Yeah, I didn't get that much.

Yeah, yeah. Summarizing is that, is that because the kids were a little distracting?

Okay. Maybe. All right, all right.

Okay. So, uh, I, uh, you have it in your handout, but, uh, this is, uh, info slide.

Uh, this is kind of the background. And the central question is going to be, uh, uh, sorry, I'm not a debate expert,

but, uh, Shira, who's in law school, instructed me a little bit about this.

So this House believes is kind of one of the sides of the debate that I will cause a job apocalypse with major job displacement over the next decade.

And so the way we're going to organize this debate, uh, is in two steps.

But before we organize, I want to have a sense of, uh, which position do you favor in this debate?

So, uh, please go ahead. Uh, you know, oh, you need to see the keywords.

Okay. So I want to say that the reason, um, I don't know the answer to the questions is not lack of effort.

I think our teaching team in the last two years has probably spent more,

collectively, over 150 hours trying to understand the answer to this question.

And part of the reasons these questions are difficult to answer is because there are these two open questions.

One is how will the technology evolve? We have some guess.

We have some guess about AGI and when it's going to appear and what it's going to do.

And the second one, which is what are the policies that are going to be in place.

And without knowing what's going to happen with those two things, I think it's very difficult to predict what's going to happen with jobs.

Uh, so that's at the center of the conversation, uh, today.

Okay, so here the two steps. I'm not going to show you, uh, where you are in terms of the debate.

I'm just going to describe the two steps. So the first step is we're going to do a small group debate for eight minutes.

And then the second step is some of you will be asked to be to come to the front of the room and, uh, to debate at the front of the room.

That hopefully mimics some of what you learn. So what is the first step?

Or before I describe the first step, I want to, uh, also tell you about one thing,

one slide that I'm hoping you will be sort of paying attention to as you participate in the debate.

Think about the strongest argument in favor and against.

Okay, here are the steps. Uh, you're going to get you're going to form groups of four.

If it's a group of five, that's okay. Uh uh, three is probably too little, but uh, six is probably too many.

4 or 5. Uh, the first two alphabetically are going to argue for regardless of what your position is,

you're going to argue for, uh, alphabetically by first name, the last two alphabetical we'll argue against.

Okay, good. All right. So you're going to do a mini debate inside your group.

You're going to go back and forth for side will present 1 or 2 arguments against side will respond.

And you're going to keep turns short 30 to 45 seconds.

This is not time for grand standing speeches.

This is like quick arguments on both sides. And you're going to aim for clarity, evidence and logic, not volume.

And as you debate, you are going to identify one argument on each side because we're going to use that later in class.

Are there questions about how the debate is going to work? All right.

Go. Eight minutes. Many games.

Right now. Oh!

My. God!

Oh! Okay. Okay.

And you know. We're dancing.

Right. Why?

Because. When you have.

Oh. I'm sorry.

I sorry. All right.

Guys! Guys! Guys, guys!

Guys guys guys guys, guys. Guys, guys, guys!

I am so sorry. I am.

Not sure. That is required.

Well. Like.

I said. While I was.

Sorry. I said!

I. Was.

Not. Wrong, I guess.

I. Almost.

Every time. Like this. Yes.

Yes. Yes.

Yes. Yes.

Yes. Drops.

Back. Like. You think that?

I. Sometimes go wrong.

I don't. Think.

It's fair I. I am.

Not sure. That.

You're. Right.

I think it's right. Yeah, I think I.

Was. It's.

Not like that at. All.

So I think that that's. I love my.

Life. I mean, I feel like I what I.

Was trying. To hide.

I don't like. To try.

To cheat. That's my problem. What we're seeing is the worst, though.

All right. You have two minutes left for the end of the debate.

I want to thank you guys in advance, but I also.

Part of. I'm doing all this.

I. Already feel.

Uh. Uh.

You know. Eight times.

Yeah. That's.

Right. So.

That's. Kind of how.

I did it. It's.

But these. Is it?

Possible. It's like so wild.

That's. Why I want you there.

I want you to keep quiet. I just got a lot.

Of anxiety. And it's something I kind of just kind of had.

To work too fast. All righty.

So let's come back together. Clap your hands if you can hear me.

Clap twice if you can hear me. Clap three times. If you can hear me.

Clap four times. Clap five times. All right, let's go back. All right.

So we're going to, uh, we're going to need, uh, three volunteers from each side of the debate.

So who wants to volunteer for the, uh, four side of the debate?

If you haven't participated lately, this is your chance to shine.

Okay, even if you have participated, lady, your chance to shine.

Carlos, you are in for. We're not against art now. Guess not yet.

Which side were you in? And how about her previous five you were against?

Okay. You and you, for and against. Come here. Okay, let's pick another pair.

Come on. You must have had a good debate. I'm not sure if.

You could change it if you were against. Come against Rosie, I was four.

All right. Great. All right.

Well, let's maybe let's do two and two then. Okay.

While while they get set up, uh, I'm going to ask you to write in the handout the best argument you have heard, uh, for and against.

And as they are discussing, please do the same.

And then at the end, uh, you're going to participate in the debate briefly, but they're going to be driving it.

So microphones. Oh, and we're going to do a little experiment.

Sorry you volunteered before I told you, but we're going to um,

we're going to try to see if I can record and help us determine the winner of the debate.

Okay. All right. Well, it's an experiment.

We're not sure if it's going to work, but let's, uh, let's set the rules here.

So here are the rules for this. Uh, step two, uh, two volunteers.

Each of you get 60s to present one high quality argument.

And, uh, this should come from your group. Strongest points in step one.

Okay. And then you're going to have cross-examination.

So after the four side presents, the again side gets two minutes to ask questions or raise challenges.

And same reverse. It's good that I didn't put these rules because then no one would have volunteered.

Uh then switch and against present and for cross-examination.

And the questions should probe assumptions evidence and causal logic.

And then at the end we're going to have open floor, uh, 2 or 3 rapid contributions.

Are we ready? Are you.

Ah. Okay. So who's starting? I can start with the four.

You can start with the four. Okay. So I'm going to put the timer so you have it in front of you.

You go go go. Okay.

So I think the most important thing that we have to consider here,

that we are not in the realm of a mere tool anymore, but, uh, in the realm of an agent,

which is complete, like 100% doing the task that other people have been doing before, it's not the computer that will help you do your task.

It's an agent that will do whatever people have been doing, but just way better, and will continue to get better and better over time.

So there's just no chance that white collar worker can compete with that so they will be replaced.

They will not have any economic value anymore. And currently if we look at the trend we are in, the first time,

I think in history we had this like economic growth and job opening graphs that used to mirror each other are just completely breaking.

They're going in the opposite direction since ChatGPT has been released.

And this is why I think that this the strongest argument for the far side.

Yes. Great job. Okay. You want a you want it again.

All right. You're going to say sorry. You're against. Yes. Okay.

Uh, how about just for the visuals against people go this way and the four people go down.

Okay. All right. Against you.

You go. Um, so as we've learned in the class, there's a bunch of issues.

Was I still like the hallucination bias or, like, data privacy, those kind of issues.

So, um, actually, in a decision making process, it's pretty hard to fully replaced human with AI.

So, um, I would argue for, uh, there still needs some part of the, uh, human in the loop to actually perform the core part of the decision making.

So, um, okay, great.

So now cross-examination. So the question.

Yeah, you asked the question about what they just said. Okay.

Um, how do you. So if there's a human in the loop, how do you account for training?

Like, people need to be trained on the skills of managing AI, but we're seeing a decrease in, um, kind of early stage hiring for new employees.

So how are people going to be trained to do those skills if they're not being hired now?

Uh, so I feel if training is the only concern here, um, why not use AI to train people as well?

Because there can be a lot of ways to, uh, simulate the scenario and allow them to, uh, repeat, uh, skill and try to grasp it better.

And, uh, I think I maybe I'm missing something in the question.

I don't understand why exactly training. Well, um, like directly.

Well, I just don't think there's, like, an economic value to training.

Like, businesses are already deciding that it's not worth it to hire young new employees.

So if they're not being hired, how can they be trained to do the work of augmented jobs with AI?

There's just not an economic value to it. I think it depends on what type of job you're talking.

For example, for surgeons, I think it's still very hard, and I don't see it in a foreseeable future to be replaced by.

I and things like that. Um. Uh, I think there are certain jobs are very repetitive.

They will be replaced. However, they can also be, um, more manual jobs and also more, um, complicated task,

as well as new type of jobs that we haven't seen today that will be invented.

So, uh, I think it will be a shift in what type of jobs, but not necessarily, um, a disappearance of all the jobs.

But I don't think that it's necessarily just a problem of the training.

I think the problem with your argument is more like you're saying, oh,

we currently see some flaws that AI systems still have, but it has only been like a few years.

You know, this will we will only get better from here. And we are already outcompeting most humans, right?

It's not like humans don't do any flaws. And then it's exactly what you said, right?

It's a question of the economic value.

And I really don't see how, um, white collar workers really at tremendous, uh, value compared to these AI systems that are only going to get better.

Right? So we know it's currently improved a lot, but we we don't know the end state of it.

Whether it can be fully resolved or like those issues can be fully resolved in the longer run.

So that's still a question. Questionable, uh, thing for us to fully replace human in the loop, I'd say.

And it also, uh, for us to better training people.

Uh, right now, all the models are biased based on existing data.

And then, like a lot of the new things are coming up where they need to feed into the model,

those need, um, more information and like human in the loop for providing those signals.

Okay, okay. Before you continue, now it's your chance to cross-examine them.

They remember their arguments. Cross-examine.

Do you remember their arguments? Okay, just as a quick answer, it's not about human in the loop.

Like human in the loop already. You know, people like it's you lose so many jobs if you have a human in the loop already.

Uh, sorry. I'm gonna cut from there, but cross-examined.

So I think you mentioned a lot about the economic value of human work.

Uh, do you think there are other purposes of work that we still cherish?

Like, even though maybe on robot in a specific thing, we'll be more productive?

Are there any other reasons people will, um, continue to work?

I mean, I think, yes, people want to produce art and there's like an intrinsic value to creating things.

But I think the problem is that we might do skill labor to the point that there are only low wage jobs.

And so inequality grows. There's more kind of social unrest.

I think that's a problem.

Like it's not that people don't want to perform work, it's that the work that they're performing is actually so undervalued that they can't survive.

Yeah. I um, I agree with the point.

Um, at the same time, I think maybe you will actually provide an opportunity for us to reimagine what does work mean?

I hate to call a kind of a rant, but there are a lot of ways we think about jobs and its value for human society.

And maybe you will drift us, um, away from the definition that work is just for economic development and for producing more goods or services,

but to reimagine as something about human self accomplishment and, um, creation.

I think that might even be a good direction. And.

All right, all right, I need to stop you here. Oh, no, I know, I know, I know you want to come.

All right, so now I want to invite others.

Uh, so, uh, what are arguments in favor that haven't been raised that you think are important in this debate?

Uh, I think a lot of you hopefully wrote something in the fourth column there, Eric.

Yeah. So I don't think we brought the, uh, the issue.

Uh, uh, the the wealth is going to be moved from the people who are being displaced.

Yeah. All right. I'm not gonna get any part of the wealth that's coming out of the automation.

So the concern is the productivity of the economy.

And if you don't move, if there's going to be a wealth disparity, I think it's going to be a big problem.

Okay. All right. Any other arguments in favor, sunshade I think there's there's also merit in stratifying.

Who's going to get affected by the job of apocalypse, which is primarily going to be low skilled workers who are more likely to get

displaced by this also because they don't have the tools or for whatever reason,

have not been able to upskill themselves.

Okay, I want to hear argument, uh, pushing back against that low skilled labor, uh, is the one that's going to be displaced.

Natalie. Um, I think one of the readings are in the National Bureau of Economic Research.

Percent more of the authors said that it's high skilled white collar workers, um, that will lose their jobs at higher rates.

So, um. Lawyers, consultants.

Things of that nature. I would just add the one other thing that was interesting was that, um, oh, antique workers.

But to the other point of the argument, just quickly, is that these people will have more time to be more creative, more client focused work.

But for entry level jobs that are white collar, the base is going to shrink.

Thank you. Natalie. You were nodding. You want to say add anything?

You were on the same team. On the same team. Yeah, but I think well, I think we are going to talk about this as, um,

if you're talking about low skilled workers, there is probably going to be a boom in blue collar jobs.

Yeah. The transition into. Yeah. Because, I mean, we still need to build things.

There is infrastructure need to get built. And I know the construction industry right now is quite it's, uh,

quite tight and is looking for a lot of laborers, but there's not enough, uh, tradesmen are so great, right?

Celeste. I'm sorry. Uh, just a counter to that.

In our group, we were talking about, uh, Amazon, um, like Lights Out initiative,

where they're looking towards a future where their warehouses don't even need lights because everything is robot powered.

And so those are examples of blue collar manual jobs,

and robots are just replacing walking across a warehouse because that a human is too inefficient.

Yeah, yeah. They say the factory of the future is going to have one person and one dog.

Do you hear that story? I have, uh, one person and one dog.

You know what the role of the dog is? To keep the human distracted so that it doesn't.

He doesn't know. Uh, okay, so now let's hear the argument, uh, arguments that haven't been raised against the motion.

Yes. I think this is a self defeating problem because there's some demand destruction as everyone loses their jobs.

There's no one with disposable income to buy the products and services that AI is going to provide.

And so it will ultimately become. Uh, useless to displace all these workers because you're not actually going to be able to sell anything.

Okay. Any arguments, uh, in response to that? No, I know you have.

Uh, Carlos. Uh uh, there is more chances to be more.

Well, it's just work has to be more equal in terms of actual demand.

It's out there. Quantitative. Yeah. So an important aspect that we haven't discussed yet is what's going to be the effect on the productivity,

because it is entirely possible to have fewer jobs but more wealth if the productivity goes up.

So that there's a big debate as to how big those, uh, productivity effects are.

Uh, but that's going to be a one of the big open, uh, questions.

All right. One last, uh, against Brittany. I didn't hear any discussion about the changing in demographic trends.

Yeah, specifically lower birth rates and the inability to fill the jobs for aging populations.

And that also leads me to think a little bit about the exchange going on about low skilled, uh, lower wage jobs.

Potentially the shift could be that those become the higher paid jobs because they are the jobs that can't be done.

Yeah. Um, and I'm thinking particularly like home health aide for older adults or things like that.

So there's a chance that those traditionally low paid jobs are now of higher value because they can't be done by AI.

And we see it in, uh, equity shifts. Okay. And we're going to get to that in the inequality part of the debate.

Okay. So first of all, please thank the volunteers for their wonderful service.

Okay. Uh, you can go now and said, uh, and, uh, so what we're going to do now is two things.

Um, we're going to have, uh, two, maybe three adjudications of the debate.

The first one is the teaching team is going to be asked to vote, and they have, uh, they have a cheat sheet and they are scoring right now.

And so I'm going to put a QR code. I know that your instinct in this classroom and maybe in life is when you see a QR code point to it.

Don't do that right now. First, uh, teaching team. Of course, you you as well.

Yes. You are part of the teaching team, right?

Hey, Helen. Helen. What did I say? No QR code. All right, so teaching team.

Are you voting by people? By people are still pointing the phone to the QR code.

Okay. All right. So how many do we have?

Teaching team. Have you voted? I only see for the voting.

You voted. You voted. Oh, reset.

Can you do it again? Okay. Are we ready for the verdict of the teaching team?

Yes. Do a little drum roll. How about that? All right. Here we go.

Okay. Teaching teams is 60% against.

No no no. Everyone votes.

Go ahead. Yes.

Okay. I know right. So.

How do you think you should.

Go. Okay. Not yet.

Give me a second. Okay. Are we ready to go?

Yes. Are we nervous? Yes. All right.

Good. Wow.

This is very close. Okay. Good debate. Uh, now, ChatGPT is going to tell us what they thought about our debate.

Teddy, can you help us here? Yes, we did that. So, ChatGPT listen in.

Just try to connect right now. It's trying to connect. Oh, no.

5050. Someone take a picture of 5050?

I guess I'm not projecting, right?

Okay, how about 30? Why don't you read? So the, uh, ChatGPT was asked to summarize.

Uh, we're going to skip that. Um, and GPT was also asked to, uh, tell us what arguments haven't been raised and then to adjudicate the debate.

Everything is okay. Okay. So let's summarize the arguments for and against for missing arguments.

It said task level versus job level automation a distinction that AI automates.

Tasks lawful occupations is only partially addressed. Demand elasticity and rebound effects.

That productivity growth can expand total output and raise employment.

Overall organizational and regulatory frictions that adoption constraints would get in the way of that happening.

So it's. Yes yes yes.

Um against team provided more balanced multi dimensional arguments.

Short. Better. So good. So it. Is less but often less specificity and weaker engagement with counter points.

If you want I can produce a version tailored for student feedback okay.

All right. Well thank you very much. Uh all right.

We're going to transition to other aspects.

I want to, um, maybe raise a point, um, that, um, was not in the debate given the way that the motion was written, uh, which is, uh,

one thing is what's going to happen with a quantity of jobs, which is a lot of the debate we had,

uh, another thing, it's what's going to happen with the quality of jobs.

And so if you are interested in this, I want to recommend, uh, that you look at, uh,

wonderful book by, uh, donuts and Moghalu and Simon Johnson, uh, called Power in Progress.

It's not a book about I. It's a book about, uh, technological, uh, uh, history or history of technology in the economy.

And the main arguments of the book, um, are the following, uh, that there have been some technological innovations, uh, like, for example,

trains and automobiles, where the working conditions of people have improved,

both wages have gone up and, uh, the general working conditions have gone up.

And there have been other technological innovations where, um, working conditions and wages have gone down.

Uh, cotton gin is obviously an important example of this.

And the argument of the book is that, uh, or one key argument of the book is that, uh, we don't know in which of those two worlds we would be.

Uh, and in part it depends on how society decides to, uh, steer the technology towards uses.

So you will see a lot of their arguments, for example, outside of the book, uh,

towards we need to make sure that the technologies in favor of augmentation of human capabilities rather than automation,

some of the policies they propose are for that. Um, I happen to believe that that's hard to do.

Uh, but they won the Nobel Prize and I didn't. So you better pay attention to, uh, that you better pay attention to, uh, them.

Uh, I do want to point out on the will we run out of jobs?

Um, there, uh, those of you who watch the David Autor video will note that in the United States over, uh, the period of 1890 to 2010,

um, the, uh, or at 1862, 2010, farm employment went down from, from representing 55% of the economy to only 2%.

And yet, uh, labor, uh, the fraction of the population employed did not go down.

So this is at least some suggestive, uh, evidence.

The debate at the end boils down to whether we think this technology is fundamentally different from previous technologies,

because if you look at economic history, what we see is some jobs get created,

some jobs get displaced, uh, and some jobs, uh, simply, uh, get augmented.

And so you have those three, uh, things. But in aggregate, we don't seem to suffer massive, uh, unemployment.

But the question is, is this time different? Uh, and that, I think, is part of a debate that played out, uh, in the classroom.

All right. So let's go to which jobs will be affected.

And I want to point to you, um, three jobs here.

I think a couple you will recognize, one you might not.

So on the top left for you, anyone recognizes that job operator, telephone operators.

Uh, what happened with that job? Uh, I guess it's gone obsolete.

Technology made it completely obsolete. Okay. Uh, second job.

Um, pilot. Okay. Uh, some of you know, might know that you.

A plane can fly without a pilot these days. I want you to raise your hand if you would feel comfortable boarding a plane without a pilot.

Okay. We have two people. Four people, five people, six people.

Seven. Eight. Okay. We have about 10% of the class.

It's interesting. I, uh, asked this question recently at an event, and only one person raised their hand.

And, uh, it turns out she was a pilot. Uh.

So I think we have maybe I don't I don't think all eight of you are pilots.

Uh, but, uh, but what I want to say is that even though we know, uh, this literally happened, uh, uh, even though we know,

uh, that, um, a plane can fly without a pilot, there might be societal reasons for why we don't want to do that.

Uh, and those societal reasons might be protecting jobs.

Uh, so it's not just about whether the technology can automate the job.

That's a very important, uh, feature is whether we as a society want.

Now, I predict that, you know, a generation from now, maybe people will feel a lot more comfortable flying a plane without, uh, without a pilot.

Uh, but not now. Clinton would answer that debate and say, uh, majority of pilots are actually piloting a plane that does not carry human beings.

Uh huh. I would argue that most people are okay with autonomous flying if you start carrying people.

Yeah. So I would still say it has a bigger impact. Okay.

The acceptable use. Yeah. Has a bigger impact on society and and number of quantity of jobs.

Interesting. And does our, um, converse with the, you know, moving people?

I would confess that I was at a flight not too long ago, and the pilot said the weather conditions are really bad.

We're going to do autopilot for landing. And I was like, oh my God, I am.

I don't know how I feel about this. Uh, and specifically for the pilots example,

I think one of the factors you have to keep in mind is how strong of a union like this specific employment.

Right? Right. Because pilots have a very strong. Yeah. Then it's not going to be any person that set up their jobs.

Flight attendants. Not so sure. Okay. Okay, good. So.

So it's not just, uh, societal, uh, from, uh, how comfortable we are, but all sorts of other, uh, things that might do.

Okay. The third one is, uh, this one here, uh, this is, uh, bank teller.

Uh, what do you think happened, uh, with bank tellers when the ATM machines were introduced?

Who thinks that the employment of human bank tellers went down?

Can you raise your hand? Well, thinks it went up.

Who doesn't seem to want to vote or care?

Uh, okay, so those of you who probably voted for Up, uh, probably saw already are familiar with the research.

But the basic idea here is that even though ATMs in theory should have completely replaced the human tellers,

uh, the number of human tellers with introduction of the ATMs actually went up for a period of time.

And the reason has to do with the fact that, uh, it became a lot cheaper to open bank branches.

And so bank branches expanded, and they needed bank tellers not for doing the dispensing of the cash, but for doing other things.

So to me, that story, the reason I raised this story is that, uh, it is I think it is very hard to know which jobs would get this place,

at least if you had asked me, uh, when the introductions of the ATM machines was going to happen with human teller,

I would have said they are going to disappear. Or at least, uh, greatly reduced.

But what I want to suggest to you is that, uh, there's a way to think about, uh, this, uh,

and the way to think about which jobs are going to displace or not is to think about breaking each occupation into tasks.

And essentially for each task, judge where they would be automated, augmented or not affected.

You did that in the PC. You did that with a radiologist and with, uh, teacher or professor.

Um, and so the basic idea is then you take in, you think you take the magnitude of the impact, uh,

the magnitude of the impact on the job is going to depend on how much automated these jobs are and the time spent on those task.

Obviously, if it is that a task that occupies a lot of your job and it's automated, that job is going to be more exposed.

So when you do that, you have graphs that look like this. Many organizations, uh, create these kinds of, uh, graphs, which is like, what,

percent of the task or how exposed, uh, there is to automation augmentation and not exposed, uh, at all.

So this is one of the many examples that, uh, exist.

So to, um, uh, so so the bottom line is, if tasks get automated,

if a large percent of the tasks in the job get out dominated, then that job is most likely more likely to be displaced.

If, uh, greater percent get augmented, then that job might not be this place might just be augmented.

So in the spirit of, um, of testing a little bit, this idea, uh, how about you, uh, vote on.

Which of these jobs, uh, is, um, most exposed to generative AI doctors, nurses, or equally exposed?

Uh, sorry. My bad. Okay.

Can you go again? Go on.

I'm. All right.

Uh, can you get in pairs and try to convince each other?

We'll be back in one minute. Oh.

Oh my gosh. I just I can't, I can't.

I. I.

Don't. Have enough money to.

Buy a couple. I know.

Many times. It's like.

I mean. Whatever.

Yeah. I.

I don't like that. I don't like.

Oh, God. I'll.

Yeah yeah yeah. Please. All righty.

All righty. Let's come back together. Right.

That's all right. Can you please vote again? Yeah.

Yeah, but. Can you please vote again?

It's the same website. So if you just refresh your browser, it'll work.

I you. Okay. Did, uh.

No. Yeah. Yeah.

Well, you know. How about now?

No. Yes. Yes. No.

I think you have to delete your vote. Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah, yeah. Uh oh.

You have to revote. Yeah. Just get a result. Oh, no, I have to.

Okay. Yeah, that's the way I vote. No, I think it's that they just need to announce your first vote on the place.

All right, so did anyone change their mind as a result of this conversation?

Yeah. Hannah. Yeah. Yeah, I did change my mind.

Um, so my. Honestly, just like my gut reaction was nurses, because I feel like people just have more respect for doctors overall.

So I felt like as a society, there'd be more like outrage for doctors, nurses who do so much people don't care about.

And the more we talked about it, like nurses do have such a personal touch,

and it just felt like the actual actions that nurses perform are harder to replace.

Yeah. Like what? Like what?

Like, for example, the nurses going to come in, like, physically take my blood pressure, like, take my temperature or whatever.

Um, versus the doctor might be looking at an x ray or looking at certain things that I could easily do.

Right, right. Alex. Uh, I think I have a similar, um, sort of change of perspective here.

Uh, and, and most of it came down to just the definition of exposure,

because I think both of these careers will see, uh, uh, degree of exposure to AI.

But I think it's more that, um, a lot of like the traditional class that we think of as, uh, doctors conducting are more probably easily replaced.

Whereas I think a lot of the human touch our group was may not be.

And so one of the difficulties with, uh, argument that we were saying before,

well, if most of your tasks are automated, then your job is going to be displaced.

Uh, and if they're augmented, uh, maybe not one of the difficulties of using that reasoning to predict what's going to

happen in the economy as a whole is that if you look at this particular example,

what you will see is that AI is now,

at least when well trained, could potentially, um, um, match, uh,

the diagnostic capabilities of doctors and the diagnostic capabilities of doctors is their main comparative advantage relative to nurses.

And so what might be an, uh, automation for doctors because it's being automating their cognitive, um, diagnostic, uh, skills.

And it ends up working as an augmentation for nurses,

because now nurses have access to AI that can do those diagnostic skills that they were not capable of.

So if you believe that argument, that should lead you to, um,

believe that doctors are going to be more exposed and nurses are going to benefit more from, uh, this degree of automation.

Now, of course, there's a lot of open questions here, among other ones.

Uh, are doctors really going to be, uh, replaced?

Are we a society or a space and is going to feel comfortable seeing a nurse instead of a doctor and nurse assisted by, uh, instead of a doctor?

I don't know what's going to happen, but this, I think,

gives you a little bit of a flavor of the difficulty of being able to sort of say what's going to happen.

But the general idea that I want you to have in mind is the idea of, uh, automation versus augmentation.

Those that's at the center of the jobs debate is AI replacing a lot of the task, or is AI helping you augment, uh, your job?

And in terms of your career choices, uh, think of that as well.

Uh, what do I do in a way that AI augments me now that I, uh, replaces me?

Or, um, just isn't this, like a part of the process?

AI starts by augmenting the employee and then replaces it because it's augmentation then becomes so robust.

So is an aren't we just looking at the beginning of a process towards an apocalypse?

Yeah. Um, I don't hopefully I don't know.

I think the word apocalypse is, uh, was trying to, uh, generate a little bit of a jolt, uh, in the classroom.

I don't know that, uh, um, but but it is possible that things that start with augmentation turn into automation.

Um, it's possible, but it's also possible that the things that start with augmentation stay as augmentation,

because the technology's not good enough to replace or because we as a society don't want replacement.

Uh, yeah. There are things that doctors do today that an AI doctor could do.

And the question is, will any of us be comfortable going to a completely.

Um, on on human. Uh, Eric.

So taking that a little further down, also things that the nurse does.

Yeah. That a nurse aide with I can't do. Yes, yes.

And so that that brings the question of what's going to happen with inequality.

So if you believe that argument, at least within the health sector, inequality might go down because, uh, the, uh,

professions with lower skilled within the medical profession will now have access to skills that were not available to them.

And, uh, cognitive higher order skills that doctors had are going to be automated.

We have a doctor in the room, so.

Well, we have several so I don't I'm, I'm, I feel like I'm, uh, skating on thin ice here, but they're they're welcome to participate.

That's all I'm going to say. Uh, okay. So, um, effects on inequality.

Okay. So you want to you want to weigh in on whether you want to be in a place, whether you will be replaced or not.

Um, well, I just feel about, like, surgeons and I'm going to surgical skills.

I feel a little bit more safe, but I think that I understand the way surgeons like robots now do.

Uh, I saw robots falling over, so I don't think we're there yet. Okay.

Okay. Okay. Um, but I understand the idea.

I know we're just using electronics as an example of, like, the higher skilled versus lower skilled, but I guess bring into the,

um, conversation to, like, within these parts, like, there's some reasons that there's been a separation of, um, who's doing what.

And so, like, having, like, what am I trying to say?

Like, I do think that there is a role for like, the nurse and a doctor.

Right. And I think that you still need those roles.

So I guess, like maybe going to the winning of the argument of like, against AI is like,

even if you can augment sometimes you still need like, we still want the pilot.

Yeah. In the plane. Yeah. And then the question is, though, will we still want, uh, doctor, human doctor or the human nurse?

Right. Uh, you know, in, in our own profession, do we still want the teacher in the front of the room?

Like, think about what happened in the first 30 minutes of this class.

You debated. What role did I play? Uh, please don't tell the dean that this happened in this classroom.

Uh. Uh, no, seriously. Uh, so.

So think about it. Yeah, well, what will be like, who will be teaching this class five years from now?

Well, or even more dramatically. Will there be any students in this classroom five years from now?

Maybe ten? I don't know. Don't tell the dean either. Uh, okay.

So in terms of inequality, I just want to point out there's a lot of controversy, uh, here.

Uh, the main controversy arises with some studies that seem to suggest that low skilled workers,

as Erick was suggesting from the, uh, nurse aid, uh, were the ones that were most benefiting.

If that happens, then inequality should go down.

Uh, there are other studies that are suggesting the reverse that, uh, the ones that are being most helped, uh, at the very high end.

So the, the law partner rather than the, uh, paralegal, the paralegal is being, uh, replaced.

Um, there have been several studies on this topic.

Uh, I'm not going to go over the, uh, details of some of these studies, but, uh, famous one.

Sorry. What we have spent most of our class on is trying to predict what's going to happen in the long run,

which, uh, I said at the beginning, I think it's hard to do,

but if you want to study emerging evidence, there have been studies that are trying to sort of see what's going to happen in the labor market.

Uh, this store started studying canaries, uh, in the coal mine is a very recent study, has been making the rounds,

and it's arguing that essentially people, uh, young people, uh, early career are the ones where the number of jobs is going down.

In particular, having a daughter that just graduated from college that's looking for a job.

I can attest that she is part of that blue line that you see right there.

Um, but then the question is, how much is this a continuation of a trend that was already happening in the labor

market versus how much of this is AI is automating some of those entry level,

uh, jobs? And obviously that's going to have an effect on, uh, inequality.

Uh, but I just want to point to these studies here. Generative AI sometimes reduces the gap and sometimes, uh, increases it.

Uh, in terms of, uh, inequality across countries, uh, that also is subject to a debate.

Uh, what I would say is, um, clearly the countries that have the most resources now are the ones at the, uh, the forefront of AI.

So there's an extent to which the inequality across countries is going to increase.

Uh, but there are, uh, some arguments may be made, uh, to say, look, if you, uh, live in a country that has many places that have no doctors,

no nurses, no teachers, maybe there's a world in which I could help, uh, make that happen.

And these countries might leapfrog in some of these, uh, sectors that are needed for the economy.

This is not going to get resolved in this classroom. But if you are interested in the potential argument, uh, at least of inequality in the US,

David Autor is I think those of you who watch the video can attest to that.

Uh, really, really thoughtful on this, um, matter.

And, and he has written about how I could help rebuild the middle class, if you're interested in that.

Um, okay. We're going to devote the last few minutes of class to policies.

Um, and so, um, as I mentioned, uh, before, there's this book, uh, by as Moghalu and Johnson.

So I highly recommend they won the Nobel Prize for attention to them.

Uh, and, uh, what I want us to do now is to spend a few minutes discussing what are policies that we think,

uh, could, uh, be done in the AI and jobs, uh, sector.

So here you have a list of policies, and here you have a way to categorize those policies.

So what I would like you to do is spend, um, three minutes discussing with, uh, uh, partner, uh, we're going to do vertical integration.

So no, no sitting down. In fact, stand up and speak to the person behind, uh, you.

And I want you to think about which policies if you could choose, uh, policies,

which policies would you, uh, choose and in which of these categories they are.

And we're going to come back in about five minutes to conclude. Okay.

So in which of these markets and which specific policies would you recommend you have in the House?

All right. All right. I, I, I, I, I.

What I like to do.

Is. To.

Look. At what is inside this place.

I don't. Know how much.

Time. I've got.

Right. Because I. Have always thought.

I wanted. To write poetry.

I remember. That.

I was. I think that was good for.

Yes. Yes. Yes.

Yes. What?

Oh, yes. Sorry.

Like to make. I.

Only. What? I can.

Tell you is. I.

I, I I I.

I mean, every time. I got.

All righty. Clap your hands if you can hear me. Clap twice if you can hear me.

Clap three times so you can hear me. All right, so, uh, let's discuss each of these buckets.

And what policies might you propose for each of these areas and what you see as advantages and disadvantages.

So the first bucket is compensation focused policy.

So this is not trying to, uh, regulate, uh, what AI is going to do in the labor market.

It's just saying whatever it does, we need to have systems to deal with the consequences of that.

So, um, anyone wants to argue for a policy on that side of the or on that bucket?

Um, I said that compensation was the best because it would allow us to get the most productivity out of AI possible.

Okay. You see, the restrictive policy is what, you know, say to limit are so AI adoption but even adaptation.

Yeah, it's still put limitations on how much we're able to use AI.

And especially if we're thinking in the global context,

if we're one of the countries with the most restrictive AI policies that could like what is behind,

um, you know, in the okay, go to two pieces of the argument that I want to, uh, raise.

One is, uh, very, very important.

When we think about the effect of AI on the labor market, we also have to think about the effect of AI on the economy,

because if it creates a lot of wealth, then, uh, that wealth can be used to compensate for negative consequences on the labor market.

Whereas if wealth if the, um, uh, increase in productivity and growth is not that big, it won't matter.

Um, and so, so so that is one.

And then the second one you were saying about restrictive policies, this goes back to when Teddy was talking about, uh, regulation.

You have to be careful if you regulate, uh, but then other countries don't regulate.

Then what what is it that you're losing in terms of the comparative advantage or competitive advantage of your, uh, country?

Other other, uh, in the compensation?

Uh, Elizabeth. Um, so I talked a little bit about, uh, adjusting the tax system.

Yeah. Um, we, I think we all discussed a potential shift away from white collar toward blue collar jobs for people.

And I think incentivizing that blue collar work and making sure that it is compensated fairly is important.

Yeah. And one way to do that is to make sure that employers are perhaps more incentivized to hire employees than independent contractors,

which you could do through reducing payroll taxes. Okay. So again, that social protection kind of thing, tax reform.

Three I do think when we're considering compensation focused policies, there are a number of political pitfalls that we could fall into.

And so being careful to make sure that anything that is protective of these displaced workers is not looked at unfair compared to how,

for example, uh, people who lost their jobs, uh, overseas were taken care of or not taken care of by society.

Okay, okay. So an equity kind of, uh, argument.

Okay. What about the second one? Adaptation. Um, policies there.

Carlota. Um, I actually would, um, argue against what Lila said.

I actually think that's, um, the most efficient or effective, uh, of them all, because this one goes right.

Um, I think that's the most essential to the future, um, work, um, well, together with AI and augment our,

our capabilities because this, like, helps us to create and design how we want to use it.

Okay. Um, but I underline what she said about, um, restrictive policies.

They're only always about limiting. And if you focus on those only then you will never stop limiting the use.

So you should rather proactively through adaptation and complementary policies.

See like how can I make this a good thing instead of just trying to set limits

to take this as a middle option between two extremes that you don't like.

Yeah. The most important of them all.

You will always need restrictive policies because there's always people taking advantage of these opportunities.

And you of course also need compensation focused lens. But I think the focus should be on that information.

Okay. I mean, a big question on the adaptation and complementarity policies is, uh, if you sort of say funding that promotes AI augmentation,

the question is, how are you going to decide what is AI augmentation and where is that technology augmenting?

Uh, think about the teller machine. So that's one of the big, uh, sort of questions.

How would you steer the technology? How will you know how to steer?

Uh, reskilling is an interesting one. But I would say about reskilling, uh, is often training, and reskilling doesn't work as well as we want.

And so while in theory, it's a very good, uh, idea, in practice, we have to figure out how we do it.

Okay. Anyone voting for restrictive policies or wants to propose one left?

Advocate. We have to be a society also to be.

Sorry. Uh, we have to be averse to risks.

Yeah. And to create some kind of, uh, double check policy.

So I think restrictive policies. Could we use some tool before we double check?

And I don't know if, uh, green like to do everything.

I mean, there's certainly people who are advocating for automation, taxes.

And if you're just going to do the plant at Amazon with no workers, then you pay a higher tax and so on.

Uh, I do want to come back to the argument of regulation arbitrage.

If you do this in one country, but don't do it in other countries, what's going to happen, uh, with, uh, with people?

Okay. We have two minutes left. Uh, the thing that I want you to do now is, uh, we started, uh, with, uh, some questions here.

The big questions. Um, I told you that, uh, nobody knows the answer.

Uh, but I'm hoping that, uh, by the end of this class, you have a little bit of,

uh, more educated way to think about your answer to these four questions.

So please take a moment to write down what your at least tentative answer to those four questions are.

I know. This.

Works. Okay, so the last task.

Pick someone you haven't talked to in this classroom, exit the classroom with them, and exchange your view on at least one of these questions.

And, uh, don't tell the dean that that is, uh, what the conclusion of this class is.

Thank you. And see you on Monday. Okay.

This. But this is the case.

Oh my gosh. Yeah I think.

Yeah.

